On learning game dev

	It's incredibly easy to get excited about the prospects of developing a game. Particularly so
prior to having developed a game. The thought of having a story to tell, or simply a juicy 
mechanic you just know players would enjoy, come purely from mental space and ultimately manifest
itself in a personal, interactive experience is indelibly captivating. To think, and all too often 
ignorantly speak aloud, "Such a game will surely change the world! How the hell haven't developers
made this obviously incredible breakthrough in interactive media/games/tech/art??" often marks the 
beginning of a developers journey. Though it's more like the conception of a potential journey. For 
some, it rarely leaves that stage. Rather, some are inclined to sit comfortably from afar, oftering
little but censure and 'advice'.
	Understandably.. as developing a game is incredibly challenging. Completely fucking exhausting 
and demoralizing. If anyone tells you otherwise, they're gaining something by saying so. They've 
likey sank a lifetime or two into the learning process before realizing that the process can never
truly end, as there will always seem to be 2k better devs out there, and to compete you must learn, 
and to continue the grind you must do whatever it takes to maintain your sanity. "It wasn't so 
tough for me!", "It's pretty easy to implement THAT mechanic," "It only took me a couple of hours!"
they'll say, self-validating, convincing themselves they aren't dumb or overwhelmed or never were 
when others seemed painfully not to be.. I mean, how else can I feel about myself, that guy did a 
thing that took me a week in two hours. I have to get better but I might be too stupid to do so.. 
	And yet, people do it, and certainly to varying degrees of pain. And for good reason. Developing 
a game is inncredibly rewarding. Creating something from nothing, as we aspired to in the first
paragraph can be like, to quote Mad Men's Midge on taking shooting up, "Like.. drinking a hundred 
bottles of whiskey while someone licks your tits." Okay, so maybe that's a bit dramatic (I also don't
mean to minimalize the struggles of drug addiction, just to be clear..), but it's a truly gratifying
thing that's been as meaningful to me as publishing scientific papers. A sense of belonging, 
contendedness can wash over your. You contributed. It's awesome.
	But enough rambling on why game development is and is not awful. To sum it up and risk sounding 
overly cliche, anything that's worth anything will take some serious dedication and hardship. How do 
you make it to and over the stretch of hurdles fading into the horizon? I don't know, there is no 
one piece of advice anyone could give to keep one moving in the proper direction. However, I have had 
a number of experiences in the past while trying to develop games and gone through a number of 
dramatic changes in outlook and the way I approach projects.

DeLeon approach - engineless development, minimal barrier to entry
Not comparing yourself to others (people boast, people suck)
Emphasis on discipline.
Importance of a project you are dedicated to over broader goals
	Dont be concerned with purchasing every possible Udemy course because those are clearly the 
	skills that will set you apart and carry you to success
Competence comes with serious experience. Lessons are great, but quick tutorials or stack overflow
	queries that help you push through your immediate passion project to 'completion' will do far
	more for you.
Take a step back and recognize progress. You have progressed. A lot. For fucking sure.

Progression:
1) DeLeon Pong. Nothing to complete game
2) Tinkering with complete game
	- Modify the physics
	- Add more players
	- Make the paddles change color/size/force-applied every time they make contact
3) Try to a make a canvas game from there. Just JS, just html5 canvas.
4) Fail. Overscope incredibly. How could you have possibly thought you could develop such apparently
	complicated mechanics on your own from scratch in a short period of time and maintain interest?
5) FORGIVE. Overscoping is an absolute guarantee. You WILL do it. 
6) Revisit the monster project and cut nearly everything. Focus on making it a 'game', with a win 
	condition as soon as humanly possible.
7) Recognize how long that awful excuse for a game ended up taking you..
8) Appreciate the difficulty. The fault is not on you. It's inevitable.
9) Learn to hone scope
10) Learn the power of collaboration
11) Learn the power of third party engines

At each step along the way, stay disciplined. Read War of Art. Do stuff. Everyday. without fail. If
you don't, don't crush yourself, just get back in the groove the next day. Get involved with 
communities. I hardly am and suffer from it. This community is ridiculously supportive.

